# Machine-Learning-Based-ETP-Outlet-Monitoring
Industries  such  as textile and ready-made garments (RMG) contribute to a massive amount of waste or effluent. Effluent treatment plant (ETP) are used to remove as much suspended solids from wastewater as possible before it gets back to the environment. However, some of the factories  which  have  ETP  do  not  always  keep  the  ETP  up  and running  because  it requires maintenance and consumes  a  lot  of  electricity. Therefore, a huge amount of waste water flows directly into the environment and causes severe pollution. This research proposed an Environmental Internet of Things (E-IoT) and video surveillance based multi-modal ETP outlet monitoring system for real-time and continuous inspection of  discharged water. The E-IoT sensors monitor pH, temperature, turbidity, total dissolved solid ,electrical conductivity and dissolved oxygen of discharged water and  these sensor values  are used to determine Water Quality Index (WQI). Furthermore, the K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN) classifier  is used to predict the verdict and Water Quality Class (WQC) from the sensor observation. The video surveillance data of ETP outlet is used for classifying polluted and  refined water using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) . This data is furthermore used for RGB colorimetric analysis for tracking the WQI. The proposed system uses Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) to predict the long-term WQI trends considering the seasonal impact.  The proposed system has achieved an accuracy of 99% for verdict prediction and 97% for WQC prediction with KNN, 98.3% for verdict using video classification with CNN and 94.9% accuracy for Water Quality Index predicting with  LSTM.
